Extraction of terminology in the field of
construction
1st Rémy Kessler                       2nd Nicolas Béchet                         3rd Giuseppe Berio
Université Bretagne Sud                Université Bretagne Sud                     Université Bretagne Sud
CNRS 6074A                              CNRS 6074A                                  CNRS 6074A
56017 Vannes,France                     56017 Vannes,France                          56017 Vannes,France
remy.kessler@univ-ubs.fr                  nicolas.bechet@irisa.fr                   giuseppe.berio@univ-ubs.fr


—We describe a corpus analysis method to extract
terminology from a collection of technical specifications in the
field of construction. Using statistics and word n-grams analysis,
we extract the terminology of the domain and then perform
pruning steps with linguistic patterns and internet queries to
improve the quality of the final terminology. Results are evaluated   knowledge models needs time and is costly; one of the earlier
by using a manual evaluation carried out by 6 experts in the field.   questions raised by our industrial partners has been about
   Index Terms—terminology extraction, Internet queries, linguis-
tic patterns.
   The current era is increasingly influenced by the prominence
of smart data and mobile applications. The work presented
in this paper has been carried out in one industrial project
(VOCAGEN) aiming at automating the production of struc-
tured data from human machine dialogues. Specifically, the
targeted application drives dialogues with people working in
a construction area for populating a database reporting key
data extracted from those dialogues. This application requires
complex processing for both transcripting speeches but also for
driving dialogues. The first process is required for good speech
recognition in a noisy environment. The second processing is
required because the database needs to be populated with both
right and complete data; indeed, people tend to apply a broad
(colloquial) vocabulary and the transcripted words need to be
used for filling in the corresponding data. Additionally, if some
data populate the database, additional data may be required
for completeness, thus the dialogue should enable to get those
additional data (e.g. if the word ”room” is recognised and used
to populate the database, the location of the room must also
be got; this can be done by driving the dialogue).
   The application provides people with “hand-free” device,
enabling a complete, quick and standardized reporting. First
usages of this application will be oriented to reporting failures
and problems in constructions.
   The two processing steps mentioned above require on the
one side a “language model” (for transcripting the sentences)
and on the other side a “knowledge model” for driving the
 dialogue and correctly understanding the meaning of the word.
 The knowledge model is mainly an ontology of the domain (in
 this case, the construction domain) providing the standardized
we extract the terminology of the domain and then perform
 concepts and their relationships. As well-known, building such
improve the quality of the final terminology. Results are evaluated   knowledge models needs time and is costly; one of the earlier
by using a manual evaluation carried out by 6 experts in the field.   questions raised by our industrial partners has been about
 “how to build, as automaticaly as possible, such a knowledge
 model”. This question is closely related to the interest of
tic patterns.
 quickly adapting the application to other domains (than the
 I. I NTRODUCTION
 complete methodology and system for partially answering the
   The current era is increasingly influenced by the prominence
 question, focusing on how to extract a relevant terminology
of smart data and mobile applications. The work presented
 from a collection of technical specifications.
in this paper has been carried out in one industrial project
 The rest of the paper is organized as follow. Section II
(VOCAGEN) aiming at automating the production of struc-
 present context of the project. Related work are reviewed in
tured data from human machine dialogues. Specifically, the
 Section III. Section IV presents collected resources and some
targeted application drives dialogues with people working in
 statistics about them. Section V describes the methodology de-
a construction area for populating a database reporting key
 veloped for extracting relevant terms from collected resources.
data extracted from those dialogues. This application requires
 The details about the evaluation are presented in Section VI-A
complex processing for both transcripting speeches but also for
 and results obtained, are given in Section VI-B.
driving dialogues. The first process is required for good speech
 II. I NDUSTRIAL CONTEXT
required because the database needs to be populated with both
 Figure 1 presents the context of this work in VOCA-
 GEN project. Our industrial partner Script&Go1 develop an
 application for the construction management dedicated to
 touch devices and wishes to set up an oral dialogue module
 to facilitate on construction site seizure. The second industrial
 partner (Tykomz) develops a vocal recognition suite based on
 toolkit sphynx 4 [1]. This toolkit includes hierarchical agglom-
 erative clustering methods using well-known measures such as
 BIC and CLR and provides elementary tools, such as segment
 and cluster generators, decoder and model trainers. Fitting
 those elementary tools together is an easy way of developing
 a specific diarization system. To work, it is necessary to build
 a model of knowledge, i.e. a model describing the expressions
 that must be recognized by the program. To improve the
 performance of the system, this knowledge model must be
 1 http://www.scriptandgo.com/en/