C u t and P a s t e B a s e d Text S u m m a r i z a t i o n
Hongyan      Jing and Kathleen                R. McKeown
Department of Computer Science
Columbia University
N e w Y o r k , N Y 10027, U S A
hjing, kathyQcs.columbia.edu


We present a cut and paste based text summa-
rizer, which uses operations derived from an anal-
ysis of human written abstracts. The summarizer
edits extracted sentences, using reduction to remove
inessential phrases and combination to merge re-
suiting phrases together as coherent sentences. Our
work includes a statistically based sentence decom-
position program that identifies where the phrases of
a summary originate in the original document, pro-
ducing an aligned corpus of summaries and articles
which we used to develop the summarizer.

1 Introduction

There is a big gap between the summaries produced
by current automatic summarizers and the abstracts
written by human professionals. Certainly one fac-
tor contributing to this gap is that automatic sys-
tems can not always correctly identify the important
topics of an article. Another factor, however, which
has received little attention, is that automatic sum-
marizers have poor text generation techniques. Most
automatic summarizers rely on extracting key sen-
tences or paragraphs from an article to produce a
summary. Since the extracted sentences are discon-
nected in the original article, when they are strung
together, the resulting summary can be inconcise,
incoherent, and sometimes even misleading.
   We present a cut and paste based text sum-
marization technique, aimed at reducing the gap
between automatically generated summaries and
human-written abstracts.
on how to identify key sentences, as do other re-
searchers, we study how to generate the text of a
summary once key sentences have been extracted.
   The main idea of cut and paste summarization
is to reuse the text in an article to generate the
summary. However, instead of simply extracting
sentences as current summarizers do, the cut and
paste system will "smooth" the extracted sentences
by editing them. Such edits mainly involve cutting
phrases and pasting them together in novel ways.
   The key features of this work are:
   (1) The identification of cutting and past-
 ing operations. We identified six operations that
 can be used alone or together to transform extracted
 sentences into sentences in human-written abstracts.
 The operations were identified based on manual and
 automatic comparison of human-written abstracts
 and the original articles. Examples include sentence
 reduction, sentence combination, syntactic transfor-
 mation, and lexical paraphrasing.
 (2) D e v e l o p m e n t o f an automatic system to
 p e r f o r m cut and paste operations. Two opera-
 tions - sentence reduction and sentence combination
 - are most effective in transforming extracted sen-
 tences into summary sentences that are as concise
   and coherent as in human-written abstracts. We
 implemented a sentence reduction module that re-
There is a big gap between the summaries produced
 moves extraneous phrases from extracted sentences,
by current automatic summarizers and the abstracts
 and a sentence combination module that merges the
written by human professionals. Certainly one fac-
 extracted sentences or the reduced forms resulting
tor contributing to this gap is that automatic sys-
 from sentence reduction. Our sentence reduction
tems can not always correctly identify the important
 model determines what to cut based on multiple
topics of an article. Another factor, however, which
 sources of information, including syntactic knowl-
has received little attention, is that automatic sum-
 edge, context, and statistics learned from corpus
marizers have poor text generation techniques. Most
 analysis. It improves the conciseness of extracted
automatic summarizers rely on extracting key sen-
 sentences, making them concise and on target. Our
tences or paragraphs from an article to produce a
 sentence combination module implements combina-
summary. Since the extracted sentences are discon-
 tion rules that were identified by observing examples
nected in the original article, when they are strung
 written by human professionals. It improves the co-
together, the resulting summary can be inconcise,
 herence of extracted sentences.
incoherent, and sometimes even misleading.
 (3) Decomposing human-wrltten s u m m a r y
 sentences. The cut and paste technique we propose
 here is a new computational model which we based
 Rather than focusing
 analysis, we developed an automatic system that can
 match a phrase in a human-written abstract to the
 corresponding phrase in the article, identifying its
 most likely location. This decomposition program
 allows us to analyze the construction of sentences
 in a human-written abstract. Its results have been
 used to train and test the sentence reduction and
 sentence combination module.
 In Section 2, we discuss the cut and paste tech-
 nique in general, from both a professional and com-
 putational perspective. We also describe the six cut
 and paste operations. In Section 3, we describe the
 178